Thank you so much
for this great overview and all the
benefits challenging management is
definitely complex. But what is next in
this area, right? For platforms, ecosystems,
do you see more consolidation,
fragmentation, standards? How do you see
technology evolving in those areas?
What's your take as a futurist
for these areas? Well, kind of difficult
to predict these days,
right? I mean, things keep evolving, you know, I mean, AI is taking the
spotlight on everything that we do and
everything, you know, so, and what is required
to ensure that you are taking the best
approach towards AI and that you're
leveraging from whatever you can to provide
an AI capability, right? So data will
continue to be a main area of focus
and what data you make it available within
the organization, what data you leverage
externally from the organization to support
your AI models and to what extent you are
going to trust that data and what kind of
controls or checks you are going to have and
what are going to be your policies and
procedures as far as AI is concerned. Some companies
may choose to just rely on tools that
are already available externally. Some other
companies may be more conservative and take
a slower step in terms of how to build an AI
capability that's more focused on internal
assets as opposed to leveraging from external
assets. So I think that there will be a
lot of discussion and there will be a lot of
evolving technologies and approaches to data
to support AI. Because behind the AI, there
is always data rights that runs the models
and runs everything. So there will be
still a long way to go with respect to
ensure that the data and the AI are
operating together in a nice way, in
a safe way, in a reliable way. So
there's still a lot of discussion that needs
to happen there. cloud talking to
each other still and creating
interoperability in different cloud
services is still an area that needs more work you have key players I think the first
approach is to always like let me develop
my product and put that product in the
market so that people find the value
of the product and adopt that product. But, you know, today, as you know,
there is not such a thing as I'm
going to stay just with this one vendor
for all my needs. As I said, that is
the best in class. And usually that
involves, you know, now talking to
different clouds or clouds talking to
each other so that you can support different
products that may not necessarily be
in the same cloud. So how do we integrate
that? How do you make those systems communicate
in a safe way, in a performing way?
I think there is still a lot of work to be
done with that respect over the next few
years. We still don't have solid solutions
there for bringing together to clouds from
different vendors that may co-exist. And
basically, today, I'm pretty sure most
organizations are leveraging for more than a
single cloud, right? And we certainly are,
and I'm sure that pretty much all the other
organizations out there can believe that
they only rely on a single cloud. So there's
still a lot of work to be done on how to
make this together. So those are
primary areas. There is always going
to be, you know, every time a new wave of
innovation comes, it comes with a number
of different vendors trying to provide the
best and try to get market share so that
they can survive. And there's always a number
of different products that end up consolidated
or some lose. And so that is part of,
I think, the natural life cycle of an
innovation. You know, you want to hear about
different offerings. And over time, there
will always be some consolidation there.
But the key players stay, and then those
are the ones that start evolving
their products and providing different
capabilities over time. So, yeah, standards,
of course, is always part of, you know,
we have developed so many standards
APIs and ways in which we can interact with
systems and communicate with systems that
will continue to evolve for sure. So,
right, I mean, it's important that that
is in place. So, you see continuous
involvement in that area, right, I would say.
Right, so those are, I think, key
things, you know, data, inter-cloud operability, ensuring that anything
that you do is safe and secure from
a cyber perspective, standards. So I think
those are things that they're going to continue
to see, for sure. Yeah, such wonderful
insights here. You know, we really
appreciate you sharing those. As we start to
wrap up the interview, I was wondering if
you had any advice to share with young IT
or business leaders that are kind of
starting out in their careers or headed
towards that next stage. Yeah, I mean, there
is a lot of changes happening. You know,
a lot of things to keep up with, you
know, but there's also a huge amount
of resources available out there
for you to stay on top of things, right?
I mean, all these big companies that
are operating today, you know, whether
it's Google or whether it's AWS or Microsoft
or Oracle or Workday or whatever, They all
have, if you go to their websites and
explore the opportunities that they offer there in
terms of certification processes or just
basic seminars that tell you about what
they are trying to do and the products
that they offer. So I think that level of
curiosity needs to be there in any young
professional, a young person trying to
understand and get a better understanding of
what's going on in this entire technology
landscape. So be curious. Spend time understanding
what the products are and what it means
and how they can be leveraged and how things
are putting together, solutions. There is a
lot of information out there. There are
opportunities, you know, on campus or, you know,
you're hearing about some seminars or fairs
that are happening around, you know, go there
and try to understand what's going on. As
I said also earlier, you know, a lot of
blurring of lines between business
and technology. So, you know, if you have
more of a functional focus, try to
understand better the technology that is
supporting your function in your business
areas. If you are more of a technologist, try
to understand what's the purpose of that
technology and how they are going to
support in the business process of the company
or that you are trying to introduce
with that technology. So, you know, don't
be just a technology or just a functional
person. Try to come to the middle
because that's how things are evolving
these days, for sure. And, you know, also
be aware that every time a new technology
comes, there's always a lot of opportunities
that, you know, you should look at and
try to take advantage of, but also be aware
that there will be also new challenges,
which may become an opportunity, a problem
for you to solve as you see. And, you know,
so be aware of that as you move along with
your career. And, you know, I think that
things should be fine. I was talking the
other day to an intern here, and I
was like, you know, be aware about
the impact that AI is bringing to the
areas, the different areas in an organization, primarily the
technology space, right? I think I read an
article recently that was describing how
sometimes new graduates these days are
finding a hard time finding a job. And,
you know, for specific skill sets that
may really be true, you know, I mean,
certain skill sets like basic
development skills, starting as a
junior developer, those are areas
that are more quickly being
replaced by AI. So be aware and
take a look at what areas may be
more in demand. We talked about areas, architectures,
cybersecurity, data scientists, people that
understand how to ensure that data,
Those are areas that are still
going to be there. Basic development areas, you know, I mean,
today you can have tools that do the
development, develop code for you very
easily. So those are definitely going to
be more effective. Innovations are
always something that you cannot get from
an AI tool, right? So be aware as you're
building your career and choosing,
making your choices about where to work
and where to operate. be aware and make
an assessment on to what extent things
like AI may be impacting that space
in the years to come. Thank you so, so much, Paulo. That was great. I know so many great
insights and we truly appreciate you
taking the time to share your knowledge,
your experience, your ideas with
our students. That was wonderful. Thank you again for
the opportunity, right? And these are my
perspectives, you know, take for all it's
worth, you know, but certainly I appreciate
the opportunity of coming and talking to
you guys here today.