It's a pleasure
to have Paolo Floor with us in
this interview. Paolo is a Senior
Director for Finance Technology
at TIAA. He has extensive
experience in the field
of technology, previously working
as an Executive Director for
JPMorgan Chase, responsible for
portfolio management, VP for Special
Projects at Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi, and Manager at
Deloitte for Enterprise
Application Services. Paulo has a PhD in
business with an information systems
focus from the CATS School at the University
of Pittsburgh, a master's in
aerospace engineering from Georgia Tech,
and a B.S. in mechanical engineering
from the Universidade Federal de Minas
Gerais in Brazil. Paulo, thank you
so much for taking the time to speak
with us today. Thank you for the
opportunity of talking to you and
your students. and it's always a
pleasure. Thank you. So let me start
straight to the point, you know, the
main idea behind platforms and
ecosystems, right? So in the last 10 years,
we have seen a lot of discussion
about platforms and ecosystems in the
technology area. Can you share
your perspectives about those
concepts, right, of platforms
and ecosystems? Certainly, right? I mean, when I think about
platforms and ecosystems, right, I mean,
I try to make a distinction between
how do I differentiate between the two and how
do I explain from my perspective what I
mean by those, right? From my perspective,
platforms are more foundational
in nature, usually built
for a purpose, right? They tend to
serve as a framework under which you
automate through technology certain
business processes and you try to support
certain business functions. So there
is always that purpose of whatever your
platform is there for, right? But it can be very
broad in nature, right? I mean,
so it could be a number of different
tools that you have to build
certain applications. It could be an operating
system in which you're going to build
your applications. It could be anything that
you put together that will enable the
creation, the deployment, the integration,
and the management of applications
and solutions supporting business
processes, right? So all of these could
be categorized as a platform for the way
I look at it. And as I said, it may include
an operating system, cloud computing offerings that you have, AWS, Google Cloud, Oracle Cloud. These are all
platforms in which we operate. ERP systems,
very, very specific to the area, for example,
where I operate. As well as the
development frameworks where we are building
custom applications, etc. So all of
this is how I take a look and
characterize platforms. When you're talking
about ecosystems, when you bring
together all these technologies into
an organization, each one of them,
all these platforms that serve a
specific purpose, when you try to bring
that all together, and not only the
technology aspect of it, But the people
aspect of it, the people that are going
to work with these technologies, the
people that you have to interact through
these technologies, right, as well as
the vendors, in some cases, you are relying
on vendors to provide with the technology
capability or, you know, in some shape or
form, right? So, when you take all of that
together, you create an ecosystem or you
have an ecosystem. You could say that you
create an ecosystem, but eventually, how
do you bring all this together? You are
operating an ecosystem that has to be managed
as well so that you can have optimal performance
of the automation processes and the
integration that you are trying to achieve
within a certain organization. Right. So
so, you know, of course, it includes all the
hardware, the networks, the applications, the people, the data itself. Right. So all of this
comes together as a as an ecosystem
that that exists in an organization to support
all the business processes that you are
trying to automate. Right. So those are
the ways in which I try to differentiate
between these two. Certainly a discussion
of ecosystems will focus or will eventually
talk about the multiple platforms
that are supporting these different business
processes. Right. So that's basically
how I look at this. you know i mean i hope
that will differentiate a little bit and then
we can we can explore in more detail as we
go along yeah what wonderful overview
paulo that i think that really kind of summarizes
things puts things in perspective for us
you know you've been working in at the intersection
between technology and finance for many
years and of course without divulging
any trade secrets or proprietary information.
Could you maybe share how platforms and
ecosystems have impacted the work that you've
done over those years? Absolutely, right. I
mean, I think that, as I think I
mentioned a little bit earlier, in my space,
finance technology, a major paradigm shift
occurred when the introduction of ERP
systems, right? I mean, when we moved from
mainframe systems to process accounting
entries and things like that. And we introduced
ERP systems as we were trying to solve
for the Y2K problem. Those were major
paradigm shifts in the finance
technology space. And today, they're still
the heart of any finance technology
infrastructure. And around them, you
start building a lot of systems that interact
with the ERP and they start introducing a lot
of different systems that were not core to
the accounting processes and sub-ledger
processes, but it started introducing things
like a planning system, profitability
management systems. In some cases, you
started looking at leveraging from
vendors to support you within the finance
space. For example, a lot of tax related
activities and processes are automated
through third party vendors, you know,
and that you have to bring them all together
as part of your finance ecosystem.
Let's put it this way. You know, you start to
bring data capabilities, you know, I mean,
finance, you produce a lot of financial
data that eventually you want to use
for reporting and analytics. So all this
data that is being produced on all these
applications have to come together in some
sort of data store or data warehouse where
you can build the reporting analytics
capability. Those capabilities by themselves
are other, you know, platforms that introduce
so that you can provide the reporting
and the analytics requirements, meet the
requirements that the users have, right? Of
course, all of that has moved, initially built
within the boundaries of the organization, but
with that event of cloud systems and clouds,
we started shifting towards leveraging from
cloud infrastructure to provide those
capabilities and at the same time integrate
all of that through different cloud offerings
or SaaS applications. you started introducing to support all of that. So certainly, I mean,
we do live today just within finance in a very rich ecosystem that needs to be properly
managed and taken care of, right?
At the same time that we interact
with all the other ecosystems that exist, you know, finance
is just a reflection of what's occurring
in the transactional system that's
facing end users or, you know, that
front-end systems. So, you know, so all
of that. And we also produce data that gets
consumed by a number of different groups
and different teams. Everybody's interested
in knowing the finance numbers. So all of
that comes together as an even broader
ecosystem that we operate in, right? So, for
sure, over the years, things have evolved
and continue to evolve, you know, as we
build this ecosystem.