So you kind of started
alluding to that, but I'm going to
ask you a little bit more about what
have you seen as the main benefits and
perhaps some of the challenges that are
related to being embedded in so many platforms
and ecosystems? Well, I mean, clearly
the benefits is that you are all of
a sudden, you have a very broad offering
from which you can pick and choose
based on your specific business needs,
right? It's not that you are stuck with
a single solution. Today, the way platforms
are built and the way they are put together,
you can have the best in class and
bring them together to provide the best
solution that you can to meet the business
requirements that you have. So that's
definitely a very important aspect of being
able to bring together multiple platforms
into a single ecosystem. Of course,
cost is another one. We used to be
everything, when it was everything
on premise, everything had a
huge cost just to maintain the
infrastructure in which these applications
used to run. And that was not core
of what we needed to do. maintaining
infrastructure and renewing and upgrading
infrastructure, there was not really
much value added from a business
perspective, but that was what we had to
do because there's no such a thing as
a cloud offering. So when we started
leveraging from these developments in
platforms and started leveraging from these
advancements in the platforms and cloud
computing came about, I think that was also
a significant change. Today, I don't have
to worry at all about upgrading my
infrastructure every three years because it's
reaching end of life, right? But on the
other hand, you do have to manage the whole
ecosystem to make sure that it's operating
in a way and that it's performing in a
way that you expect, right? So there
has been, you know, today, even though
I don't have to worry about upgrading
infrastructure, I do need to make
sure that, you know, multiple cloud systems
talk to each other in a more
seamless way, in a performing way, so
that I can move data or I can access
multiple cloud systems in a
performing way, right? Also, ensuring
that when I started working with all these
platforms that may not reside in
-house, that I am addressing cybersecurity
risks and issues, right? Those are
very serious today, as you know. Every
day, every week, we hear about some issues
on the cyberspace, and that comes
with the cost of moving your platforms,
and they started creating an ecosystem
that goes beyond the organization
that you are part of. Vendor management
certainly is another area of concern.
You need to look at the vendors that you
are working with. You know, you need to
find the right balance, you know, because
managing vendor relationships can take a
lot of your time and can take a lot of resources
to do that, right? So you have to find
the right balance in a number of vendors
that you want to work with so that you meet
your goals, but you don't over-stretch the need
to manage too many vendors at the same
time, right? So, and ensuring that you're
working with vendors that are going to partner
with you and support you as required
throughout the entire process, right? So, those
are definitely things that need to be taken
into consideration. And how is
everything coming together, right?
Sometimes you may, you know, you have
to always look at the end-to-end
holistic as you are making decisions
about where you want to go with a
certain architecture in the support of a certain business process. You want to make
sure that you are not solution just for
the specific need that you have, but
that you're solutioning holistically so
that when you bring that new platform
into your ecosystem, you're not going
to face issues in a number of different
ways. There are so many ways that things can
go right and things can go wrong, and
you have to be aware of those as you're
building those platforms and bring them into
your ecosystem. You know, I can give you
a number of examples of that,
right? I mean, you know, an issue
that came across to my attention
recently is the fact that, you know, we
had built a cloud with, you know, where
your production system is and where your
disaster recovery system is. And, you know,
and other people have built other components
of cloud components that we are now trying
to integrate together. But, you know, from a
production perspective, things were working
fine. But when you start to look at the
disaster recovery, there was not as much attention
to where we were placing those disaster
recovery capabilities. And, you know, like, wow, when we start looking
at the disaster recovery capability
as a whole, it was, well, there are some
issues here that need to be resolved
because things were not going to work as
integrated as we would like to see in the
production system or as the way we see
today in the production system. So things like
that, I think that needs to be attentive
to. And so that, you know, it changed the
perspective about what you have to do and
what you have to spend your time doing as
you're managing multiple platforms in a certain
ecosystem, right? Yeah, thank you,
Paulo. So you mentioned something about managing
vendors and so forth. I was curious about,
you know, with all the different stakeholders
and platforms and systems that are involved
in these, how do you manage those multiple
stakeholders that are actually participating
in these ecosystems? It's not an easy task,
right? I mean, and that's what I say,
right? I mean, a lot of the skills have
changed from, you know, doing some technology
work in the past or procuring
technology, implementing
technology, to now managing relationships
with vendors. Also, you know, I
mean, as I said, the ecosystem
includes end users and includes, you
know, the technology people that work in
your organization. And, you know, you
kind of need to, it's almost like orchestrating
all of that, right, from a resources
perspective and making sure that
people with different backgrounds, different
purpose in the ecosystem are coming together
and coexisting and operating in an
optimal way in that ecosystem, right? So
it's not an easy task, as I said, right?
Also, a lot of blurred lines between
technology and business today that you need
to be attentive to as you are building these
ecosystems. Today, it's longer the
days that an end user didn't have
to know any or much about how technologies
come together and how they
work and operate, right? So those
are things that today end users
have to have a little bit more
knowledge about, you know, talk about
the AI capability, how to create a good
prompt, you know, even though it's a natural
language, how do you create, how do you interact
with AI capability? How do you assess data,
you know, and data quality to make sure
that you are not completely trusting
the data or whatever results that you're
getting from an AI tool. So those are things
that you need to be on top of how you're going
to prepare the end users to deal with all
these platforms that are coexisting in an
ecosystem there, right? So all of these
things. Now, certain functions
are very critical in this new
ecosystem paradigm, let's put it
this way, right? Architecture, as I
said, you need to have a good understanding
and a way of managing how the architecture
is evolving. And, you know, you
don't want to centralize too much, but at
the same time, you cannot have it
completely decentralized because then you start
having some issues. As I mentioned,
for example, this DR issue that I
mentioned to you, you know, something that if you don't have a
good understanding of how things are
being put together and brought into
the ecosystem, that can lead
to issues. And then when I say
architecture, that is the technical
architecture, but it is also the business
architecture. How are these business processes
coming together? How are they integrated through the ecosystem? So that's also an
area that needs attention and
that people need to look at as you
are, you know, building the
platforms and bring them into the
ecosystem. So architecture is
definitely one. Infrastructure, critical, right? I mean, making
sure that the choices that you're making in
terms of cloud systems or networks and how
these are going to talk to each other and
what are the several different ways in
which you're going to allow different
platforms to interact and work with each other. So
to ensure good health, you definitely
need to have good capabilities from an
infrastructure perspective, databases. What are your
choices of database? What are your
choices of clouds? What are your choices
of tools to move the data as you are
required? How well they integrate
across clouds? So infrastructure becomes
a big component here. Cyber security,
as I mentioned, anything that you
do today needs to be sound from a cyber
security perspective. And how these are being
managed is definitely something that...
So cyber and putting policies and procedures
around what is allowed and what's
not allowed and what are the rules of the
game as you consider a new platform and
you try to bring that in, what are the minimum
requirements that you have to meet
from a cyber and how you're going to monitor
all of that, right? That has to be
monitored as well. You cannot just meet the
requirements and trust that everything's
going to work. You have to also have good
monitoring capabilities. So cyber plays a
big role into that. More and more you hear about data governance, for example, right? I mean, the
quality of your data and making sure that
there is consistent data definitions across
the organization, that people are
converging in terms of data, that people
understand where the data is coming from, what
kind of data quality checks have been
made on that data, so that you have a level
of assurance that the data that you are
operating with within the ecosystem is of
good quality and can be trust, right?
Otherwise, you know, none of this will work.
You start getting results that are
questionable or, you know, that's not exactly
what you want to see. And of course, as I
said, a whole vendor management function
that assesses and makes sure that we have
a good hold and good understanding of the
relationships that we have with the
different vendors, what kind of, you know,
facilities or capabilities they have
in place on their side to support you. Because,
you know, you may be taking care of
everything that you have under your control,
but then you hire a vendor to take care
of your tax area. But, you know, they
may not have the same controls. they
may not have the same capabilities in
place and then that may create a risk
in your ecosystem, right? So vendor
management becomes a big part of
this ecosystem management process
that I mentioned. So, you know, and
people, right? You need to have
people with the right skills,
people prepared to work in those capabilities. So there is always that
aspect that you have to constantly be
looking at, you know, how can I leverage
from the people that I have to do the work
that means getting them.