Hello, my name is Alex Lopez, and this is the
last video in a series about
organizational agility, platforms,
and ecosystems. In this video, we concentrate on
some factors that will allow
an organization to implement
organizational agility. Now, first of all, it's
important to notice there are certain ways,
right, the certain factors that are going
to impact the likelihood of success. is with
any change, any big change in the case of,
you know, trying to implement organizational
agility, right? It's important to
have this high-level leadership, right,
and really pursuing those opportunities
that enhance the likelihood of
obtaining success. All successful
transformations, and specifically
successful organizational agility
transformations, they are going to involve strategy, structurally. process, people
in technology. So you want to make sure that the top
team gets it. You want to
make sure that you're going
after the value. You want to make
sure that we're connecting just beyond
the agile teams, and try to create
a connective tissue around them, create
a network of teams, and really try to
maintain a high speed. Essentially looking
at how can you keep going? How can you keep
pursuing this? And, you know, essentially
looking as to become, right, some of the
teams become examples of the other team's
organization, right? Really trying
to keep pushing the boundaries
all the time. And you have to
think as well that any sort of agility
organizations, you have to
really rethink the operating model and
structures, right? It's really looking
at times at adopting a product-oriented
organization structure. This is
something that many organizations talk
about. about today, you know, this
product orientation. And this is really a
very big key element for trying to pursue
organization agility. It's very important,
of course, to improve those interactions
between business and technology, making
sure they're working together in some cases,
most cases, hopefully, involved in
the same teams. You have to rethink
what are the managerial roles and
responsibilities, right? If you have a
much flatter organization you're
talking about organizational
ability, right? Now, for a sudden, the hierarchy is
not the same. So we have to think
about, hey, you do not really need
to manage as much, but perhaps you
need to lead more. And there's a
change, it's sometimes dramatically
change for many people in
the organization. You have to reconsider
budgeting and planning models, right?
I have to think about how to finance,
right, how to support efforts that
essentially become value streams. They're not,
you know, a single, project that are
going to keep evolving over time and for many,
many years, right? You have to think about
those value streams as constant
evolution or constant change in a way that
keeps finding new value, right, for the
involved stakeholders. And you have to think
about how to manage teams, small independent
teams, teams that have ownership about
the things they do, right, where they're
not mandating to do things just
because, you know, someone else is
telling them how to do that, they have really
self-management, and that's many
cases, it's tough organization to really
wrap their heads around that, right,
and create this true independent
self-managing teams. Now, the other thing to
consider is that, you know, is everything
works fine, right? And we still have
to think about the maturity that the
organization has to go through to really
become more agile, right? So, you know, you have all these factors, right, coordination,
small teams, etc. But it's still
part of that is cultural, part of
that is structure, part of that is
the willingness to pursue this route. And in many cases, it's just a start
to understand that change
is a constant. And you have to
define a north start. This is where we're
going, even if you don't quite know
how we're going to get there. this is
the direction that we're pursuing
the organization, right? So let's make
sure that we adapt, but to adapt in pursuit of that North
Star, right? Again, having teams
that are really jointly composed by both
business and technology becomes very, very
important, right? In many cases, you
might try to create, right, especially
if you have a business unit that
is more, you know, perhaps a little
bit more advanced, a little bit more
already, you know, willing to do changes,
right? You might even think about
creating a minimally, a minimum viable
organization, an MVO, not a product, but
a full organization, that you allow you
to interact, right, allow to learn over
time. And you have, again, kind of a
sprint, to ensure you have some time to
reconsider, right, iterations. But the organization
is changing itself, right, as almost as
a product, as the product is the
organization that is evolving over time.
Because the final outcome that we really
want is this highly adept organization,
right? And essentially where
conventional structures, right, and a lot of
silos are replaced by these integrated
functions, that these teams that are working
together, right, supporting each
other, and really supporting the
innovation, right, and the creation
of value for all stakeholders in
that organization. Now it is time for
our Playposite quiz. And with that, this is the end of this video, and this is the end
of the series of videos about
organization agility, platforms, and
ecosystems. Thank you very
much for watching.