Interesting, this is really
fascinating, right? Because sometimes you
have this tendency of like there is a
framework, right? There is no methodology. And that is this,
by golly, right? We have to follow
that, precisely. Otherwise, you're going to not get the benefits. And what they're
telling is just, is this a much more
flexible approach in which you understand
the main principles, but you adapt to
your own situation. And that's really
fascinating to really see. But going over beyond
even this topic, right, we talked a little bit about
organizational agility. And I know that you are a transformation
consultant. I'm assuming that you
also deal with not only with the net and grid of the
technology parts, but I also have to think about the over
organization. What's your experience
in terms of organizational
agility and helping organizations to
become more agile? So when you talk about organizational
agility for me, I'm thinking about
business agility in our business team that
are supported by IT. Last time when we
discussed this, my answer was that
our business teams were starting to adopt Lean Agile practices for the same reasons that we had started doing them in IT that need to limit
work in progress. Focusing on the highest priority work versus doing everything at once and not actually delivering
any business value. Suffering from
extreme amounts of cost of delay. Making progress
a little bit on every single
business initiative, but never actually
saying that we're done, versus doing a smaller
set of initiatives. Swarming on that work together and getting
that out the door. Start getting value, getting feedback
from the customer, and then making
improvements. And then deciding, okay, based on that response
to what we've initially
delivered in terms of products and services, what should we do next? Should we build more into those existing
products and services? Or time to look at other opportunities
within our backlog that we can start
working on. Now, this time around, my answer is the same. But I am now personally
witnessing and being a part of this adoption by the business side
of our organization. What's been happening
here, Alex, is that business teams
are noticing what their IT counterparts are doing at their same
site location, at every site
around the world where agility exists within the
IT organization. Business teams are seeing that and they're going, what's that, what
are you doing now? They do that for a couple of different
reasons though, Alex. One reason is
because they don't understand why they're
working that way. And it's impacting the way that they're trying
to engage with them when it comes to work intake and feedback
and all of that. Some of it is out of
necessity for them. Hey, IT has changed. We don't understand
how they've changed, so we need to understand. When they understand,
they go, oh, perhaps we now can work more
effectively with IT, and maybe we should
adopt some of the same things to
improve our own flow. Just a fun example
here is that there was one of our
IT portfolios, the corresponding
business team. This is exactly
what happened. They wanted to
understand, okay, what are they
doing in changing the way they work when
it comes to agility? And they're
doing this work, Breakdown by epics,
features and stories. And they're prioritizing and they're committing to intervals of various
sizes and what. And then once
they understood the light bulb went off for them
and they said, we want to do
the same thing. Let's give that a try. Because we also have, using the tools
that IT provides, we use them to develop
our own products and services for our own works execution
for our customers. We want to do
the same thing because we're under
cost pressure as well, by which we can't do everything that we have traditionally
been able to do. We are being forced to
be more focused and working together
with less. We're not used to. Oh my gosh, IT,
you're doing that. Because maybe we were forced to do that
a little bit earlier and then the
business goes okay, wow, we see that model, we want to do the same. Interesting. I was
actually going to ask you about an
example of that, but some is happening
already in Omi, right? This idea about learning, that's cross pollination, where the organizations, there are some
practices here that can be helpful. I'm going to just a little bit to
follow up on that. Do you see a teams where the members are
coming from both sides? Right, to the technology
side of the business. Is that something
that is becoming more constant or more
frequent at Mogo? Yes. So last
time I actually did share with you
another example of how three different fuels and lubes
organizations. Two were IT and one was business
actually coming together to form a single more encapsulated
organization. With end to end
delivery teams, eliminating handoffs
and coordination between business and IT. And when we
initially talked, I shared this was
starting to happen. This is actually
in place now. Whereas the Scaled
Agile Framework describes we have separate business and IT organizational
hierarchies. But we also now have
what Safe calls the second virtual
operating system in place, including people from both business and
organizational hierarchies organized now around
value streams versus remaining in
functional silos. Other businesses and IT organizations have seen this model and
they're starting to do the same as well. And that actually
introduces some challenges
for us because you being so traditionally
hierarchical and being focused on line management within a hierarchy, right? It requires adjustment
to realize that there is that second hierarchy
which now exist, the second
virtual operating system where
we're organized around products with IT and business together. And it really does require management from
both hierarchies, business and
IT to actually work a bit more in
concert together. Otherwise, your
leadership, you've got the two headed
monster going on and that's going
to potentially impede flow in the
end from experience. This is great
understanding because that's a big
challenge, right? Is how to create
this disamamation, traditional style
of doing things. Right now we say, wow, we're going to be
working in teams. We're going to be working teams with multiple
components. A technology component and a business
component that might actually go across different
departments even. Right, To put together you're going to
organize across value streams and product. That's a lot of changes that is required, right? So you talked about management as just kind of understanding how to orchestrate all
those things, but are there any
other challenges that an organization that might be interested in pursuing this
route would face? So indeed, last time
when we talked about this and we kind of just touched
on it as well, the key challenge that
we were having in developing organizational agility for not only IT, but for business, was
not being universally structured and organized around
value streams. And also not being used
to limiting work and progress and swarming on the highest priority
initiatives together. This time my answer is different because
we've actually restructured a lot over the last several
years and this is all public information
to be more organized around
our value streams. So now we have
value streams like upstream
product solutions, low carbon solutions, technology and
engineering, supply chain, and so on. Upstream in particular has been the most
interesting one for me, having done a lot of software development
for the upstream over the years where we used to have an exploration
company, a development company,
a production company, all under the
upstream umbrella as separate
companies, right? And really the value
stream in terms of finding and
producing energy wasn't limited to
any one of those. And they crossed those different organizational
boundaries. And they were struggling
in terms of building teams that cross those organizational
boundaries. So to help address
that, hey, let's re organize by
these value streams. And we're witnessing these parts of
the corporation now now organized more in terms of these higher
level value streams, making tougher decisions about what to focus on. We can't do
everything anymore, but what should
we be focusing on as well as the corporation as a
whole is actually evolving its culture
to be more in line with agile values
and principles. And really stating
that publicly, but also to all
of its employees, that we need to change the way that we work
at Exxon Mobil. This is the
culture that we are but also want
to be more of. And let's get in line with that
without I think the corporation
realizing that there are ties to our corporate
culture strategy, back to agile values
and principles, particularly in
the manifesto. Now the challenges
are starting to shift to the same ones that we've historically
struggled with in IT. I think we've talked about a few of these already. Inconsistency and
approach where the business lines
are adopting their own ways of
doing Lean Agile. Which is fine, except
where it's necessary for internal
collaboration across portfolios as
well as cross portfolios across
business lines. This is causing
some confusion both internally
and externally. So there may be
a need there again for Agile or lean consistency
across value streams. And then also there's that adopting the checking the box approach to
lean Agile, that oh, we've done all
the practices or we're doing them that the coaches told us
to are the things that we read up on and
we put into place. But deemphasizing continuous learning
and coaching and really holding
themselves accountable to are we actually
delivering results, really seeking
to build and maintain high
performing teams.