Hello, my name is Alex Lopez, and this is part
of a series of videos about
organization agility, platforms, and ecosystems. And in this
video, we're going to focus on
organization agility. Now, the first
thing to realize here is that
platforms enable organization
activity, right? So if you think
about organization identity, and I like
this definition, the ability to quickly reconfigure strategy, structure,
reprocesses, people in technology, toward
value-creating and value-protected
opportunities, you're really
thinking about how those platforms allow
the organization to respond
quickly, right? Especially if
you are going to be launching
your products. So a platform allows
you to really, you know, avoid
repeating things, avoid doing things that
are the basics, right? I don't
need to think about mechanisms
to, you know, collect data if my
data is already present in the platform. I don't
need to think about mechanisms to validate
processes if those processes are already
part of my platform. So I can really concentrate
on the innovation, on new products and markets that I'm serving, because the baseline
is already in place. And because of
that, you see that organization agility
is not only in the realm of those
organizations that are in the highly
changing, highly volatile markets and
industries, right? Everybody is pursuing
organizational identity in industries
that maybe sometimes you can even consider
as pretty stable, but because of
the benefits that can come
out of that, these organizations are
pursuing organizational identity, even if
they don't have that need to quickly
adapt all the time. Now, it is easy
to see why, right? Because there is so
much value. So there is a study provided
by McKinsey that essentially look
at the benefits of platforms in
organizational agility, and how organizational
agility really transformed, you know,
how the organizations were able to become
more customer-centric, more have a better
operation performance, really be very quick
in making decisions and implementing those
decisions, especially those that lead to
innovation, right? You see about employee
engagement and efficiency as employees have
that ownership, really they think about
that, you know, the tasks, not as something
that's kind of demanding on them, but
they're a part of that quickly evolving,
right, a set of products and services and new
markets that really make things exciting
and new, I think keep the organization being
propelled forward. Now, organizations, it's important
to realize that the organizations
that try to implement
organizational identity, they're not only
startups, right? And actually, if
anything, they're having startups
in that mentality, over time, it
becomes a little bit less efficient
if you're trying to achieve
organization agility. It's really about
trying to marry, to match some stable
practices, right, some dynamic
practices as well. So some of the things
is that are going to be stable because
you cannot, unless you are a startup,
you know, moving very, very fast,
you cannot have, you know, an organization
that is a large scale that keeps an
advantage of startup all the time. It
has to be supported by stable practices,
right? So you can keep the
mentality of the startup, we kind
of try to create, innovate, as long as you have
the stable practices, stable, you know,
all structures and processes that allow you to keep
evolving over time. The other factor
that is important to think about
organizational identities is that it changes
from that organization as a machine is
very hierarchical to organizations as
organisms, right? So it's really
thinking about, you know, not as more
a very pyramid style, but a
collection of groups, right, that you
don't have as many boxes and lines,
but really thinking about action, right?
thinking about leadership that is
guiding more than, you know, in leading
more in coaching, more than managing,
right? So having an strategy that's
a North Star that is guiding everybody
in organization, but on the other
hand, allowing people to be flexible
to change, to come up new products
and new ideas, rapid decisions
in learning cycles, right,
a collection of teams that are
working together, people that
are very very, that like the challenge,
right? And essentially, of course, the
technology, especially platforms that support
all those efforts. And now it is time for
our Play POS-D quiz. Thank you very
much for watching. This is the end
of this video.