Hello, my name is Alex Lopez, and this is
part of a set of videos about
organization agility, platforms, and
ecosystems. And in this
particular video, we're going to
be discussing ecosystems, right,
beyond platforms, how to enable
ecosystems, how to use platforms to
support ecosystems. And the first
thing to define is what is an ecosystem, and it's hard to define. But if you think
about an ecosystem essentially is either
as a plastic, that or a collection of
platforms that now have a variety of users
and many of those users are outside the
organization, right? So those users are
interacting with each other in many
cases through a platform for the
data and many or even processes that the
platform enables. So one classic example
of an ecosystem might be, for example, the
App Store, right? So it's not only the
platform in the App Store, it's really the
participation of users of
Apple or Google, in the case of
the Play Store, or the participation
of developers, right, of companies
altogether using a single platform
that enables them to transact. So that is
that involvement of the multiple parties
that really makes goals essentially from
a regular platform, to perhaps a full
-fledged ecosystem. And what we have
seen is that organizations
that have this really high focus
on ecosystems are really able to
monetize their efforts more, right?
Because they provide different avenues
and actually get more revenue from different
participants and it can be, again,
more collaborative or can create
new products and services that
now are serving, are providing support
for that ecosystem. a different strategic
approach. And that is something
to really consider. An ecosystem that
involves, for example, you know, is smart cities or smart transportation, that might have a
variety of different participants,
from technology companies, from
governments, right? From IoT providers,
from regulators, from insurance companies. So those are the
things that you have to consider because it's
part of life now, even for many organizations,
to be embedded in multi-platforms, and
these multiple platforms might be part of one
or more ecosystems. And you have to
think about what is your role
is, right? Are you a sponsor of
this platform? Are you a member
of this platform? Or a consumer of data and processes from
this platform? And you might
have different roles as an organization, depending on which
platform we're talking about, depending on
which participants that platform is enabling
in their ecosystem. Now, how organizations
should prepare, right? It's really a very
different approach, but it's not
extraordinarily, you know, different, right? It's really about thinking, what's the business
strategy and what are the
control points that your organization
should exert, ones that
platform with that ecosystem, and you
are either a sponsor or participant
of that, right? And, of course,
you have to develop the infrastructure,
even as a consumer, how to absorb
of data processes from that
ecosystem, from the platform that's part
of the ecosystem. Because of that, you
also might have to think about how the
customer management processes and the
structures have to be rethought because
again, you're not the only one, right?
There might be some different rules and
governance for that the platform in that
overall ecosystem that you have
to consider. Fundamentally, you
have to think about cybersecurity
legal partnerships, right? How are they
going to affect their participation
in that ecosystem? But you have to do
that with an open mind. You have to
really think about, you know, if we're
designing that, if we're participating in
that, you know, who are the many, many
people that are going to be involved,
and you have to be considering their
perspectives as well. And, of course,
thinking about new capabilities, how
do they translate in terms of new
value propositions as not only as
an organization, but as a member
of the ecosystem? That, of course, is
also reflecting on technology function as
well, right? how does IT outside the world,
how to internalize external IT as well,
because now we're getting resources from
the outside world and sometimes providing
resources to the outside the world and how
to modernize IT so that you can scale
innovation very quickly. Now it is time for
our Playposit quiz. And with that, this is the end of this video. Thank you very
much for watching.