Hello, my name is Alex
Lopez, and this is the first in a set of videos
about organization agility, platforms,
and ecosystems. We have several different
topics to cover. We're going to do
an introduction to platforms first, and
essentially discuss how to make platforms
work for organization. After that, we're
going to move towards ecosystems before
going deeper into organization Adidity
and how to implement organizational identity
for your organization. Now, first, we're
going to talk a little bit about
platforms and introduction to platforms,
about that concept. And one of the things
that it's important to note is that
a little bit hard to define on the
platform is, right? So I like this
typology that talks about transaction
platforms, innovation
platforms, integrated platforms, and
investment platforms. And a big value that
most of these platforms are, are providing
to their users is really about facilitated
transactions. Essentially provide these building blocks
for innovation. If you think
about innovation integrated platforms,
you can think of them as a baseline
where you can assemble almost
like Legos, right? Assemble blocks on
top of those platforms so they can create
more in different products and services
and innovation because the baseline is going to be
already there. So key functions of
platforms will be matching you have buyers and
sellers or people who have data, people
would not have data, interactions,
complementing, and even as a basis
of an ecosystem. Now, it's important
to notice, you know, if you are in a
platform, there's an absence or the presence
of the platform, because, you know, if
you are in the platform leader, right, is a
different situation. It's not easy to
create a new platform, but those companies
that have created platforms have
been really reaping a lot of benefits
out of that. You also have to
think about governance of the platform, right?
What are the rules of the platform?
How do you compete within those rules and
within the platform? Now, our focus is
really the innovation and integrated
platforms. Those are very common in the technology
sector, right? You think about SAP and
Oracle as ERP systems. We think about Salesforce
as a CRM system or even the big ones,
right? Amazon, Google, and Microsoft in cloud
services, in general, they provide so many
given cloud services. Now, the idea here
is that from the perspective of
the organizations, those serve as a
baseline, right? So they have
evolved so that you can create, you
can plug and play your own
applications in the organization on top
of those platforms. That is mostly
accomplished and very commonly
accomplished by APIs, application
programmable interfaces. And the idea here is
that those are hooks. So we have the
platform providing some openings and hooks
in which you can, you know, tag your own
application and then quickly iterate
through that because, again, the baseline, the
data and the processes are provided by the
platform itself. Now, the appeal of
platforms has changed over time. So if you
go back to the early, you know, to the late
2000s, right, 2009, 2010, a lot of the discussions
about cost saving. And over time,
that says change, right? Because most
of the time you have now platforms
essentially being used as a base of
innovation, right? So it's about, you
know, making sure that the IT staff,
the business function users are
really willing to experiment because
they know the baseline, they know
that the processes, they know that the data
is commonly shared, right? So you don't
have to recreate the wheel every single
time that you have to create a new application,
a new product, because, you know, baseline is
already there. So that has changed a
lot of the perspective about platforms from
like cost savings to something that
really can provide, right, that trigger
that allows you to innovate and to
create new innovations and products and
service in organization. The only thing to
consider about platforms, they have a strong
network effects. So one the things that
we talk about network effects is that the
more people use the platform, right? The
more valuable it becomes. Facebook with one user, not that valuable.
Facebook with multiple users
becomes more valuable for every individual
user, right? eBay, Uber,
right? More riders and more drivers
become, makes Uber more
valuable, right? So it's a, it's a very
important, you know, because that's one
thing that you have in platforms, this idea
about tipping points, right, which the
platform becomes so valuable that it's, it
really becomes part of the daily lives of
people, of the users. So there's a lot
of incentives in creating the
platforms versus making them
grow over time. Now, this means also that some companies that
have platforms, right, they become
really giant, but there's a
lot of value for mid-tier companies benefited from platforms
because, again, they don't have to
recreate everything from scratch, right?
They can innovate, they can create new
products and can create new companies
altogether because the platforms that are
providing processes and data in most cases
are already there. Now it is time for
our Playposite quiz. And with that, this is the end
of this video. Thank you very
much for watching.