All right, it
is a pleasure to be here with Eugene by Agile Coaching transformation
consultant at Exo. Eugene has been
with Exo Mobile for more than 25 years and has been in position
his time there, software engineer,
engineer, leading data teams. And now as a coach, Eugene has a passion
for teaching. He says that one
of the best jobs he ever had was as a computer science
instructor at the Center for
Talented Youth at John Hopkins
University. He has a BA in Computer Science at
Rice University, but he's also a Hoosiers in computer science
at the school. In his spare time, he managed fine
spin sometime. Also, you also be
a game show host. I have seen Eugene presents a fantastic
game show host. Eugene, thank you so much for taking
the time to do this interview about agile development in
organizational S. Glad to be here
again, Alex. And hopefully it
doesn't scare you off. Some game show enthusiasm might come out today. No, I appreciate that.
That's the thing that my students
always appreciate enthusiasm for the topic, for the knowledge that you are sharing with us here. So let's start kind of, hopefully it's kind
of a somewhat of a baseline
question, right? So, we hear so much about Agile
development, right? And what is that? How does, what's
that for you? What's a development
for you? So, this is a
question that we have discussed before. And last time that we
had this discussion, my answer was
the values and the principles of
the Agile Manifesto. And I still think that is extremely important
and really should be the baseline for any answer given regarding
Agile development. You can say all
that you want about practices in agility tied to
certain frameworks like scrum and bond and safe and extreme
programming. But doing those
practices themselves, that's not Agile
development. Or it doesn't
actually confirm, because you're doing those things that
you're doing. Agile development,
it's really about are the values and the principles of
the manifesto, for lack of a better word, manifesting themselves
in the development that you do for your
software and for your products
this time around, my answer is still
the manifesto, along with some very key supplemental
practices, which I believe
are in line with the Agile Manifesto. And I've got
three for you, Alex, here for today. One is dedicating time
to improve flow and value delivery to
the customer versus just doing work and
being 100% utilized. But you're actually
improving flow only when it comes to work that's being completed. But confirming that value has actually been
delivered to the customer, that's number one,
Dedicating time to improve flow and
value delivery. Number two, limiting
work in progress. And not only
that, but working on user stories,
features, epics, whatever your
work breakdown is, not as individuals, not with one person
working on one story, another person on the team working on another story. Same thing for
features and so on, but doing them together as a team through pairing, through swarming,
through ad hoc support. Even if you're not
technically on that Us. Story, on that feature, you're there to support
the team because it's a team commitment
to complete that work and deliver that value to
the customer. And then finally,
number three, having a customer
engagement strategy by which you
regularly seek to understand and obtain input from your customer, regularly confirm
that you're actually delivering value
to the customer, as I mentioned before. And regularly receiving reliable feedback
from the customer, the Agile
Manifesto states, is one of its
core principles. A core practices about delighting the customer through continuous
delivery of software. But you need to know whether or not you're delighting the
customer or not. So without having
a customer engagement strategy
that the whole team is aligned with and receiving reliable feedback
from the customer, you won't know whether you're delighting
the customer. These three things
I feel like I see lacking the
most often. Team teams at
any level claim that they are
agile when really, hey, are you
not dedicating time to improve low
and value delivery? Are you not limiting work in progress and working on user stories and features together
as a team. Do you not have a customer
engagement strategy? Do you not have
reliable feedback from the customer
that you're getting from them regularly
and confirming that they're actually
being delighted by what you delivered. If you can't say yes
to those three things, it's a bit hard pressed to say that you are being agile in your work and value delivery and
actually in the end, whether or not
you're delivering a quality product that
delights the customer, that's maybe a longer answer than
you were expected. No, that's great.
I should remember, one thing I learned
from you actually was the idea about it's
not enough to do a 0. But you have to
be a and I think that resonates with
what you said. It's not about the
practices only, but it's about how to internalize this
in a variety of different actions that you take as an
organization, right? So let me talk a
little bit about, as we talk a little bit about the flaw, right, which is a concept
that you bring a lot like in the scale
framework, right? The idea about no
value streams. And so what are some
of the practices? Perhaps even though
we know that there's a difference between just the practices and actually being a go, but what are some of
the practices that you folks at Exxonmobil
have implemented? Yes. So again, that
was something that we've discussed before and highlighted at that time. Scrum and bond for development
teams scaled to programs and
portfolios via our own custom
scaling frameworks, heavily based on the Scaled Agile
framework, are safe. And we've had some initial
grassroots adoption after having some initial grass roots
adoption in IT. My organization was
formed to provide more centralized
support to our organizations through training guard rails and transformation
toolkits. This timer around my
answer is the same, but I do have an
update for you. Despite the creation
of a central org, kind of like a
scaled agile, lean Agile center
of expertise, or lays our IT
organizations continue to undergo agile transformations
and in many cases did a good job. However they did it
as they saw fit. Versus aligning to a common scaling
framework. So they scaled and
they implemented a scaled Agile in sort of many
different ways. This often resulted
in the formation of overscaled portfolios
and a lack of consistency when it was sorely needed
to work across portfolios within a
single organization as well as across
organizations. A very simple example of this is the
understanding of what a release train
engineer in one portfolio could be vastly different in
another portfolio, in another
organization, or even within a single
organization. When you talk about the release train
engineering role in the context of
specific portfolios, you don't necessarily know what you're
talking about if you're coming from a
dependent portfolio. And this has been
causing all sorts of problems for us, right, in terms of flow,
because we're not all talking in terms
of common language. So our solution
to this problem has been to define
a set of what we call Agile Consistency
Principles for all organizations to commit and adhere to, that specify where
consistency is required and where there's freedom to decide
how you're going to implement a scale agility within your organization. We identified
five key areas where consistency
is required, what work management
tool we use. What are some
general principles that we all need
to adhere to when it comes to work intake and prioritization. Work execution being on a common cadence
and how we actually deliver to our customers a common understanding of roles and
responsibilities. And that's why I
was talking about release trained
engineers earlier. A very key example of where Agile consistency
is needed is in how we apply
scaling principles to determine do we need to have a program
layer or a train, or can they
actually remain as individual
delivery teams? When do we need a larger
solution and have solution train engineers and solution
level architects? When do we need to have
a portfolio layer? Because what often happens is when you don't give that a whole
lot of thought, you use a framework like the Scaled Agile Framework and look at the
largest pot, because you think, oh,
we are really large. And so therefore,
we must use the full solution scaling option in the Scaled
Agile framework when really that
was not necessary. And you've created
so many roles and so many ceremonies, and so much process that you don't
actually need. And then people
then blame safe. And they say, oh,
the safe is bad, because it introduces
so many processes. Because I thought agility was all supposed
to be about, not as much about
processes and more about
interactions, right? More about interactions and conversation
and collaboration, not about processes
and tools. But in the end,
I really believe it's because safe is
getting a bad rap. Because people are
realize that safe actually gives you options for different
levels of scaling. I was actually
very surprised. I even found
out when I took my SBC training as the safe practice
consultant. I asked the question,
in order to be safe, do you need to have RTs, do you need to have release
trained engineers? I was shocked
by their answer because they had
actually told me there are cases where it makes sense
not to have one, and that Scrum masters or Agile coaches can
fill in that role, or team coaches can
fill that role. And I said what really? And they said absolutely. So in the end, establishing this set of Agile consistency
principles for organizations within IT has been very helpful, and it wasn't
actually hard to define and get by in, in regards to the general consistency
principles. But I will admit
what has been difficult is
gaining alignment around some of the
finer details. And this has been
the main challenge, undoing what has
already been place for a while, even
potentially years. And so you have an over
skilled organization and asking them to, easier said than done. Because when you scale, you end up eliminating
certain roles or combining certain roles or combining teams. And then where do
these people go? So that's where I've
been applying a lot of my experience
and expertise, especially now
as a safe SBC, a safe practice
consultant, Really helping
organizations do maybe fair to
say that some of the damage that
has been done, but to do it in a
responsible way.