Fantastic. Thank
you so much. This is makes much more real for all
of us, right, In terms of what is a big organization
like mobile, dealing with all
these issues, and successfully, right, dealing with
some of these issues, but also
understanding that those several
challenges remaining is a big shift, right? And there's no
question about that. That leads me to
my final question which is MBA students, right, Right now they are going to award that is partly exciting part
scary times, right? A lot of changes.
So what will be perhaps some words of wisdom that you'd like to share with
our ambitions about how they
face this world, how they do well in
our current ward. Thank you Alex for
asking this question. I'm very excited to give you my answer last time. If you recall, my answer was being versus
doing agile. As we talked
about earlier, focusing on the being
over the doing. We also talked
about the team, the individual
is important and what the individual
accomplishes. But it's more important what the team
accomplishes and how the team grows in terms of its interaction
with the customer, delighting the customer,
its value delivery. And then we
kind of alluded to this also a
little bit earlier. I talked about servant
leadership before, establishing an
environment of trust and support to
motivate people to self organize and build the best solutions
and making adjustments to
your leadership. Or maybe even the
way that you're organized to be able to
allow that to happen. This time my answer
is the same, except I would like
to add one thing, chat GPT and other
emerging AI tools. They're all very awesome, but we need to be aware of what they
currently can't do. There's a lot that
they can do and I think that we're gaining that
understanding. But at the same time, we need to think about
what they currently can't do and make sure that you do not
ignore investing in those capabilities
Such as all of the elements of
my original answer because Chat GPT isn't the silver
bullet that solves the being versus
doing agile problem. The team greater than the individual problem and the servant
leadership problem. They certainly can help, but they don't
solve the problem. So in my opinion,
Chachi but cannot replace the humans who support these
objectives. Due to the sheer amount of observation,
personal interaction, and human intuition
required to make progress with
those objectives and roles like
Scrummasters, Agile and
Executive coaches. Agile transformation
leads like myself, product managers,
et cetera. They're still
going to be very, very much needed
for some time. But it is absolutely crucial for those
in such roles and like roles to move away from the
basics of providing training and
instruction and information about principles and
practices to apply. As this can all
be easily entered into and provided
by the AI tools, I could easily ask chat, I want I would like to have a framework to stay agile within
my organization. I'm experiencing
these challenges. Chat. What would you suggest Chachi BT
is beginning to be, although sometimes it's not necessarily
complete because it
doesn't have all the information
that it needs. But it does a
pretty good job of laying out an
implementation plan. In part because I
think it's able to scan the framework
websites and get all of
that information. But what needs to happen is those rules I talked
about earlier need to move away from the
information provided, which is a lot of times that's what
those rules focus on. Instead, they need
to focus more on the meat of their rules which I often see
being neglected today. What do I mean my meet? Facilitating to agreement and shared
accountability, coaching with understanding and
through observation. Not just saying you
need to do this and you need to do that,
but it's more of, this is what
I'm observing, this is what
maybe Chachi is highlighting in these
metrics, dashboards. And then based on that and what I
have physically observed from you as a team or a larger train or a larger portfolio. Let me help you
in terms of being able to coach you
through those issues. I might use chat PT on
the side to do that. But really in terms of making coaching
recommendations at it is not going to have all the information to be able to do
that for you. And then finally,
customer engagement. There was a funny
cartoon that I read about having Chachi
PT attempt to engage the customer
key customers in the development
of a new product. And the cartoon
was making fun of how Chat Chi PT does
the best that they can, but because it's
not a human that understands all of the
nuances of language. And how sometimes
the rules of language that might
be captured on like Merriam Webster.com
or like what is it, Urban dictionary and
things like that. Sometimes as humans we
don't always abide by the rules because
we don't know them and sometimes we do and sometimes we don't. And then Chachi Pt doesn't have the intuition
to figure that out so therefore
then it makes incorrect conclusions
regarding the customer. Again, Chachi BT, great tool for
understanding the customer
but you cannot fully trust Chachi
BT to do that. You still need
product managers to be at the helm when it comes to
customer engagement. But admittedly though, as I've repeated
multiple times here, to be the best in
field going forward, they will need to be
skilled in leveraging AI tools to help
accomplish these things. To me, honestly,
I feel like I've gotten away with not
having to use chat. Pt is lovely, but I've perfectly been content with using Google, which actually has a lot
of A I built into it already because I try
very hard not to. I mean, I do I do
try to memorize frameworks and
practices and guidance and guard rails, and rule definitions and all those things I do. But because of the
changing environment, business environment
in which we live in today and how many frameworks
that are out there, even today, I choose to limit what I memorize. But then I will
depend on Google and now Chachi PT to be that information
source for me or to help
me think about, okay, hey Chachi
BT the team, clearly I see the teams having
fluffy retrospectives. I notice a lack of
trust on the team, which is probably why the retrospectives
are fluffy. And then I'm noticing that the product
owner completely disengages from
the discussion when retros
happen. Chachi PT. Okay, Chachi
PT, what would you suggest would be good? A BT is probably
not the best at figuring out that those three things
are happening. They could probably
help, but ultimately, I, as a scrum master,
or as a coach, or as an RTE or whatever, I'm noticing those things, or the team may be even bringing them up in retro, Let's use chat to help me understand what are some things
that we can try. But then I'm not going to go to the team and say, oh well chat PT is this. But it's more
like, let's have a discussion because
the ownership, if you really want
something to change, the team can't just
follow what chat PT says. That's the equivalent
of following what management says
and just doing that. The servant
leadership principle is encouraging your staff, your teams to
figure out for themselves what might make for a
good solution. If you need to see that
discussion with maybe an idea that Chat
PT brought up. Sure, go ahead and
talk about that. But again, you
see what I mean. The AI tools are important but we
cannot depend on them. Focus on where we can
fully depend on them, but then leverage the tools to your advantage. That is, for your next generation
business leaders, that's going to
become absolutely crucial in this
modern world. Thank you. Yeah,
no, thank you. That's a great mission
to everybody, right? Understand the technology, understand the realm
of possibility, but also be
aware that this is not the end
all solution. That sometimes
it is portrayed, right Issue
that absolutely needed human elements
that can guide organizations for a
very profitable future where there is a
much more return in value for all
stakeholders. And I appreciate
that very much. You're welcome. So, so much for this,
for taking the time. You always great to speak
with you as always. And I'm sure
that several of my students are going
to reach out to you. I have enjoyed those
discussions so far. They've been wonderful. Looking forward to
the next round. Absolutely. Thank
you so much. He appreciate I
appreciate all the time. Thank you so much.
You too, Alex. Thank you so much
for having me.