Hello, my name is Alex Lopez, and this is part
of a series of videos about
organization agility, platforms, and
ecosystems. And in this particular
video, we're going to discuss
how to make platforms work for
your organization. And one of the things
that you have to consider is this idea that in
the future, right, you might have
organization essentially that is all about
orchestrating platforms. And there are
different ways of doing that. So there's an
interesting paper of McKinsey that talks
about three different baseline types of
platforms, right? One are customer
-joining platforms, essentially talking about interactions with
the customers, essentially as being
thought as a platform. I think what the
multiple elements that will be plug and play
into that interaction. The other one
might be a business capability as a
platform as well, and looking at that as
essentially the basic operations like HR,
finance, that can actually be thought about
as being implemented on top of a platform.
This is what main organizations are
kind of already doing, looking at the
functions as platforms. And then you have, of
course, the core IT platforms, which again,
organizations are also thinking and
executing that a lot, which is the idea
about using technology platforms like cloud
services and others that provide the
technology, you know, functionality for the
overall organization. The other component
here to consider is this idea that it
takes a concerted effort, right? So it's
not something that you are going to
start from the very beginning. You have to
think strategically. You have to think
about a maturity model in which you're
orchestrating that use of those platforms
over time, and dealing with multiple
variables as well. Most of those factors
are not technology. There are business
factors that are going to be
implemented, right, and be supported by
that platform, but sometimes the
technology platform. So we have to
consider, for example, what is our XAAS,
right, was it everything as a service? What
was it the direction where do you want
to go with that? Are you ready for
platforms? Do you have a way to, you
know, to really think about the
organization challenges and the
processes, right? What are our priorities
for the execution of platforms? Are
there going to be people going to be
trained in the use of those platforms
in the process, that are going to be
modified to do that. And of course,
in the end, considering the
technology that's going to be supporting all
those platform efforts. So those essentially
are your six main factors that you
have to consider, why, that you have
to really monitor very carefully as
you evolve your organization into
something that is really much more reliant,
but also benefits much more from the
use of platforms. And if that, this
is the end of this video, Thank you very
much for watching.